docs/testing-strategies/statistical-tests.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: Statistical Tests
nav_order: 360
parent: Testing Strategies and Techniques
has_children: false
---

# Statistical Tests

Are there cases where the behavior is nondeterministic, but reasonable bounds can be specified statistically? In other words, if the results fall within some measurable confidence window, they are considered acceptable, i.e., _passing_. 

### The Use of Statistics at Netflix
 
In [Testing Problems]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-problems/#this-is-not-a-new-problem), we mentioned that Adrian Cockcroft told us in a private communication that Netflix used this approach in part to test their recommendation systems. They computed _plausibility_ scores that gave them sufficient confidence in the results.

More recently, a new open-source project called [Intellagent](https://github.com/plurai-ai/intellagent){:target="_blank"} from [Plurai.ai](https://plurai.ai){:target="_blank"} brings together recent research on automated generation of test data, knowledge graphs based on the constraints and requirements for an application, and automated test generation to verify _alignment_ of the system to the requirements. (We plan to update this site with more information about Intellagent soon.)

TODOs:

1. Examples, perhaps inspired by classifiers.
2. Use of standard deviations, ...
3. See [Adding Error Bars to Evals: A Statistical Approach to Language Model Evaluations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00640){:target="error-bars"} a paper by [Evan Miller]({{site.baseurl}}/references/#evan-miller).
4. Deeper discussion of Intellagent.

Commit message:

WiP. V0.2 expansion with new arch.-design section, TDD coverage, more examples, etc.
Signed-off-by: Dean Wampler <dean.wampler@ibm.com>

docs/testing-strategies/statistical-tests.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: Statistical Tests
nav_order: 360
parent: Testing Strategies and Techniques
has_children: false
---

# Statistical Tests

Are there cases where the [Behavior]({{site.glossaryurl}}/#behavior) is nondeterministic, but reasonable bounds can be specified statistically? In other words, if the results fall within some measurable confidence window, they are considered acceptable, i.e., _passing_. 

### The Use of Statistics at Netflix
 
In [Testing Problems]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-problems/#this-is-not-a-new-problem), we mentioned that Netflix dealt faced the same testing challenges back in 2008 for their recommendation systems. Part of their solution leveraged statistical analysis. They computed _plausibility_ scores that gave them sufficient confidence in the results.

TODO: more...

More recently, a new open-source project called [Intellagent](https://github.com/plurai-ai/intellagent){:target="_blank"} from [Plurai.ai](https://plurai.ai){:target="_blank"} brings together recent research on automated generation of test data, knowledge graphs based on the constraints and requirements for an application, and automated test generation to verify _alignment_ of the system to the requirements. (We plan to update this site with more information about Intellagent soon.)

TODOs:

1. Examples, perhaps inspired by classifiers.
2. Use of standard deviations, ...
3. See [Adding Error Bars to Evals: A Statistical Approach to Language Model Evaluations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00640){:target="error-bars"} a paper by [Evan Miller]({{site.baseurl}}/references/#evan-miller).
4. Deeper discussion of Intellagent.
