docs/contributing.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: Contributing
nav_order: 90
---

# Contributors

The following people and organizations have contributed to the creation and maintenance of this project:

* [Dean Wampler](https://github.com/deanwampler){:target="dw-gh"} ([Alliance email](mailto:dwampler@thealliance.ai)) - IBM and The AI Alliance

<a name="join-us"></a>
# How to Contribute to this Project

We welcome your contributions! Here are some areas to consider:

* Improving the example code to cover planned areas of the guide that we haven't yet implemented.
* Other example code improvements, like utility for real-world use!
* Explorations of the many **Experiments in Try** found in many chapters. _We believe some of these suggestions would be excellent topics for basic research._
* Expand coverage of third-party tools. Incorporate their use in the example code.
* You tell us!

Visit the Alliance [`community` repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/){:target="_blank"}, specifically the [`CONTRIBUTING` page](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md){:target="_blank"} for general information about contributing. 

Visit this project's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/){:target="repo"} and the [open issues](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/issues){:target="issues"} to find areas where help is needed. We welcome [pull requests](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/pulls){:target="prs"} and suggestions as [new issues](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/issues){:target="issues"}.

Finally, you can provide feedback using [email](mailto:contact@thealliance.ai). Be sure to mention this particular project.

See also the full list of projects [here](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/){:target="aia-github"} to find other projects that might interest you.

## Join the Work Group

Are you interested in joining this project's work group? Use the form on the Alliance's [Become a collaborator](https://thealliance.ai/become-a-collaborator){:target="join-collab"} page to let us know your interests. 

Check any of these boxes on the form:

- [ ] AI Trust and Safety WG (left-hand side) and/or,
- [ ] Applications and Tools WG (left-hand side)
- [ ] Evaluations (performance, quality, trust, safety,...) (right-hand side)

In the &ldquo;Message&rdquo; box mention this project, **Achieving Confidence in Enterprise AI Applications**, and add anything else you would like us to know.

If your organization would like to join the AI Alliance, go [here](https://thealliance.ai/membership){:target="join-org"}.

## Other Notes on Contributing

The sources for this website are in the GitHub repository's [`docs`](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/tree/main/docs){:target="repo-docs"} directory. 

Notice that every page on this website has an _Edit this page on GitHub_ link to the corresponding location for the page in the GitHub repo, making it easy to view a page, then go straight to the source, make edits, and submit a PR! This is the best way to help us fix typos and make other small improvements.

Commit message:

Added a link to the project discussions.
Signed-off-by: Dean Wampler <dean.wampler@ibm.com>

docs/contributing.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: Contributing
nav_order: 90
---

# Contributors

The following people and organizations have contributed to the creation and maintenance of this project:

* [Dean Wampler](https://github.com/deanwampler){:target="dw-gh"} ([Alliance email](mailto:dwampler@thealliance.ai)) - IBM and The AI Alliance

<a name="join-us"></a>
# How to Contribute to this Project

We welcome your contributions! Here are some areas to consider:

* Improving the example code to cover planned areas of the guide that we haven't yet implemented.
* Other example code improvements, like utility for real-world use!
* Explorations of the many **Experiments in Try** found in many chapters. _We believe some of these suggestions would be excellent topics for basic research._
* Expand coverage of third-party tools. Incorporate their use in the example code.
* You tell us!

Visit the Alliance [`community` repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/){:target="_blank"}, specifically the [`CONTRIBUTING` page](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md){:target="_blank"} for general information about contributing. 

Visit this project's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/){:target="repo"} and look at the [open issues](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/issues){:target="issues"} to find areas where help is needed. We welcome [pull requests](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/pulls){:target="prs"} and suggestions as [new issues](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/issues){:target="issues"}. [Discussions](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/discussions){:target="discussions"} are a great way to participate, too.

Finally, you can provide feedback using [email](mailto:contact@thealliance.ai). Be sure to mention this particular project.

See also the full list of projects [here](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/){:target="aia-github"} to find other projects that might interest you.

## Join the Work Group

Are you interested in joining this project's work group? Use the form on the Alliance's [Become a collaborator](https://thealliance.ai/become-a-collaborator){:target="join-collab"} page to let us know your interests. 

Check any of these boxes on the form:

- [ ] AI Trust and Safety WG (left-hand side) and/or,
- [ ] Applications and Tools WG (left-hand side)
- [ ] Evaluations (performance, quality, trust, safety,...) (right-hand side)

In the &ldquo;Message&rdquo; box mention this project, **Achieving Confidence in Enterprise AI Applications**, and add anything else you would like us to know.

If your organization would like to join the AI Alliance, go [here](https://thealliance.ai/membership){:target="join-org"}.

## Other Notes on Contributing

The sources for this website are in the GitHub repository's [`docs`](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/ai-application-testing/tree/main/docs){:target="repo-docs"} directory. 

Notice that every page on this website has an _Edit this page on GitHub_ link to the corresponding location for the page in the GitHub repo, making it easy to view a page, then go straight to the source, make edits, and submit a PR! This is the best way to help us fix typos and make other small improvements.
