docs/references.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: References
nav_order: 90
---

# References

References for more details on testing, especially in the AI context. Note that outside references to particular tools are not shown here.

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Adrian Cockcroft

[Dean Wampler]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/#contributors) and [Adrian Cockcroft](https://mastodon.social/@adrianco){:target="adrian"} exchanged [messages on Mastodon](https://discuss.systems/@deanwampler/113850433324825993){:target="mastodon"} about lessons learned at Netflix, which are quoted in several sections of this website. See also [Dean Wampler](#dean-wampler)

## Alignment Forum

The [Alignment Forum](https://www.alignmentforum.org/){:target="alignment-forum"} works on many aspects of [Alignment]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary/#alignment).

## Dean Wampler

In [Generative AI: Should We Say Goodbye to Deterministic Testing?](https://deanwampler.github.io/polyglotprogramming/papers/#Generative-AI-Should-We-Say-Goodbye-to-Deterministic-Testing){:target="slides"} [Dean Wampler]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/#contributors) summarizes the work of this project. After posting the link to the slides, he and [Adrian Cockcroft](#adrian-cockcroft) discussed lessons learned at Netflix. 

## EleutherAI

[EleutherAI's](https://www.eleuther.ai/){:target="eleuther"} definition of [alignment](https://www.eleuther.ai/alignment){:target="eleuther"} is quoted in our [glossary definition]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary/#alignment).

## Evan Miller

[Adding Error Bars to Evals: A Statistical Approach to Language Model Evaluations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00640){:target="error-bars"} is a research paper arguing that _evaluations_ (see the [Trust and Safety Evaluation Initiative](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/trust-safety-evals/){:target="tsei"} for more details) should use proper statistical analysis of their results. It is discussed in [Statistical Tests]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/statistical-tests/). 

## James Thomas

[James Thomas](https://bsky.app/profile/hiccupps.bsky.social){:target="jt"} is a QA engineer who [posted](https://bsky.app/profile/hiccupps.bsky.social/post/3lgms2z6zuk25){:target="bsky-jt"} a link to a blog post [How do I Test AI?](https://qahiccupps.blogspot.com/2025/01/how-do-i-test-ai.html){:target="blog-jt"} that lists criteria to consider when testing AI-enabled systems. While the post doesn't provide a lot of details behind the list items, the list is excellent for stimulating further investigation.

## Merriam-Webster Dictionary

The [Merriam-Webster Dictionary](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/){:target="dict"}: is quoted in our [glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary) for several terms.

## Michael Feathers

[Michael Feathers](https://michaelfeathers.silvrback.com){:target="michael-feathers"} gave a talk recently called [The Challenge of Understandability](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGgkl_RnkvQ){:target="youtube"} at Codecamp Romania, 2024, which is discussed in [Abstractions Encapsulate Complexities]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/coupling-cohesion/#abstractions-encapsulate-complexities).  

## MLCommons Glossary

The [MLCommons](https://mlcommons.org/){:target="mlcommons"} AI Safety v0.5 Benchmark Proof of Concept [Technical Glossary](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1X9Sy8eRiYgbeBBVMMqNrDEq4KzHZynpF/view?usp=sharing){:target="mlc-glossary"} is used to inform our [Glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary).

## Nathan Lambert

[How to approach post-training for AI applications](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LWHbtz74GwKSGYZKyBVUtcyvp8lgYOi5EVpMnVDXBPs/edit#slide=id.p){:target="nl-neurips2024"}, a tutorial presented at [NeurIPS 2024](https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2024){:target="neurips"} by [Nathan Lambert](https://www.natolambert.com/){:target="nathan-lambert"}. It is discussed in [From Testing to Training]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/from-testing-to-training/). See also [this Interconnects post](https://www.interconnects.ai/p/openais-reinforcement-finetuning){:target="openai-rf"}.

## NIST Risk Management Framework

The U.S. National Institute of Science and Technology's ([NIST](https://www.nist.gov/){:target="nist"}) Artificial Intelligence [Risk Management Framework](https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai-risk-management-framework){:target="nist-rmf"} (AI RMF 1.0) is used to inform our [Glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary).

## OpenAI

An [OpenAI](https://openai.com){:target="openai"} [paper](https://openai.com/form/rft-research-program/){:target="openai-rf"} on _reinforcement fine tuning_ is discussed in [From Testing to Training]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/from-testing-to-training/). 

## Wikipedia

Several [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/){:target="wikipedia"} articles are used as references in our [Glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary) and other places.

Commit message:

Added information about langtest and UQLM.
Signed-off-by: Dean Wampler <dean.wampler@ibm.com>

docs/references.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: References
nav_order: 90
---

# References

References for more details on testing, especially in the AI context. Note that outside references to particular tools are not shown here.

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Adrian Cockcroft

[Dean Wampler]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/#contributors) and [Adrian Cockcroft](https://mastodon.social/@adrianco){:target="adrian"} exchanged [messages on Mastodon](https://discuss.systems/@deanwampler/113850433324825993){:target="mastodon"} about lessons learned at Netflix, which are quoted in several sections of this website. See also [Dean Wampler](#dean-wampler)

## Alignment Forum

The [Alignment Forum](https://www.alignmentforum.org/){:target="alignment-forum"} works on many aspects of [Alignment]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary/#alignment).

## CVS Health

[CVS](https://www.cvshealth.com){:target="_blank"}, the US-based retail pharmacy and healthcare services company, has a large data science team. They recently open-sourced [`uqlm`](https://github.com/cvs-health/uqlm){:target="_blank"}, where _UQLM_ stands for _Uncertainty Quantification for Language Models_. It is a Python package for UQ-based LLM hallucination detection.

Among the useful tools in this repo are:
* A [concise summary](https://github.com/meta-llama/synthetic-data-kit/blob/main/use-cases/awesome-synthetic-data-papers/ReadMe.MD){:target="_blank"} of best practices and tools for synthetic data generation.
* Tuning models to [improve Chain of Thought reasoning](https://github.com/meta-llama/synthetic-data-kit/blob/main/use-cases/adding_reasoning_to_llama_3/README.md){:target="_blank"}.

## Dean Wampler

In [Generative AI: Should We Say Goodbye to Deterministic Testing?](https://deanwampler.github.io/polyglotprogramming/papers/#Generative-AI-Should-We-Say-Goodbye-to-Deterministic-Testing){:target="slides"} [Dean Wampler]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/#contributors) summarizes the work of this project. After posting the link to the slides, he and [Adrian Cockcroft](#adrian-cockcroft) discussed lessons learned at Netflix. 

## EleutherAI

[EleutherAI's](https://www.eleuther.ai/){:target="eleuther"} definition of [alignment](https://www.eleuther.ai/alignment){:target="eleuther"} is quoted in our [glossary definition]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary/#alignment).

## Evan Miller

[Adding Error Bars to Evals: A Statistical Approach to Language Model Evaluations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00640){:target="error-bars"} is a research paper arguing that _evaluations_ (see the [Trust and Safety Evaluation Initiative](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/trust-safety-evals/){:target="tsei"} for more details) should use proper statistical analysis of their results. It is discussed in [Statistical Tests]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/statistical-tests/). 

## James Thomas

[James Thomas](https://bsky.app/profile/hiccupps.bsky.social){:target="jt"} is a QA engineer who [posted](https://bsky.app/profile/hiccupps.bsky.social/post/3lgms2z6zuk25){:target="bsky-jt"} a link to a blog post [How do I Test AI?](https://qahiccupps.blogspot.com/2025/01/how-do-i-test-ai.html){:target="blog-jt"} that lists criteria to consider when testing AI-enabled systems. While the post doesn't provide a lot of details behind the list items, the list is excellent for stimulating further investigation.

## John Snow Labs and Pacific.ai

John Snow Labs has created [langtest](https://langtest.org/){:target="_blank"}, a test generation and execution framework with &ldquo;60+ test types for comparing LLM & NLP models on accuracy, bias, fairness, robustness & more.&rdquo;

The affiliated company [Pacific.ai](https://pacific.ai/) offers a commercial [testing system](https://pacific.ai/testing/){:target="_blank"} with similar features.

## Merriam-Webster Dictionary

The [Merriam-Webster Dictionary](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/){:target="dict"}: is quoted in our [glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary) for several terms.

## Michael Feathers

[Michael Feathers](https://michaelfeathers.silvrback.com){:target="michael-feathers"} gave a talk recently called [The Challenge of Understandability](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGgkl_RnkvQ){:target="youtube"} at Codecamp Romania, 2024, which is discussed in [Abstractions Encapsulate Complexities]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/coupling-cohesion/#abstractions-encapsulate-complexities).  

## MLCommons Glossary

The [MLCommons](https://mlcommons.org/){:target="mlcommons"} AI Safety v0.5 Benchmark Proof of Concept [Technical Glossary](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1X9Sy8eRiYgbeBBVMMqNrDEq4KzHZynpF/view?usp=sharing){:target="mlc-glossary"} is used to inform our [Glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary).

## Nathan Lambert

[How to approach post-training for AI applications](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LWHbtz74GwKSGYZKyBVUtcyvp8lgYOi5EVpMnVDXBPs/edit#slide=id.p){:target="nl-neurips2024"}, a tutorial presented at [NeurIPS 2024](https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2024){:target="neurips"} by [Nathan Lambert](https://www.natolambert.com/){:target="nathan-lambert"}. It is discussed in [From Testing to Training]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/from-testing-to-training/). See also [this Interconnects post](https://www.interconnects.ai/p/openais-reinforcement-finetuning){:target="openai-rf"}.

## NIST Risk Management Framework

The U.S. National Institute of Science and Technology's ([NIST](https://www.nist.gov/){:target="nist"}) Artificial Intelligence [Risk Management Framework](https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai-risk-management-framework){:target="nist-rmf"} (AI RMF 1.0) is used to inform our [Glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary).

## OpenAI

An [OpenAI](https://openai.com){:target="openai"} [paper](https://openai.com/form/rft-research-program/){:target="openai-rf"} on _reinforcement fine tuning_ is discussed in [From Testing to Training]({{site.baseurl}}/testing-strategies/from-testing-to-training/). 

## Wikipedia

Several [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/){:target="wikipedia"} articles are used as references in our [Glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/glossary) and other places.
